SOURCE: https://ovis-intl.dartmouth.edu/immigration/f-1-students/maintaining-f-1-status
FILENAME: maintaining_status_dartmouth.txt

Maintaining F-1 Status
Overview
To maintain your valid non-immigrant F-1 status, you must have:

An unexpired passport
 
A valid Form I-20 with a current travel signature
 
A full-time course load in each required term of study
 
No more than 20 hours per week of on-campus work during an enrolled term
 
OPT or CPT authorization for any work off-campus
 
Proper transfer, extension, or change of program
Requirements for Maintaining F-1 Status
Ensure that the school listed on the visa and on the Form I-20 are the same for initial school attendance. That school is the one you must intend to attend.
 
You must be registered in SEVIS no later than 30 days after the program start date, and within 30 days of the start date of each academic term.
 
Pursue a full course of study at the school listed on the current Form I-20 during every academic term except during official school breaks, or unless approved under a specific exception, in advance, by your OVIS advisor.
 
Make normal progress towards your degree by completing studies on or before the expiration of the program completion date on your Form I-20.
 
Keep your Form I-20 valid by following proper procedures for extension of stay, change in educational levels, change in programs of study or transfer of schools.
 
Abide by the F-1 grace period rules (30-day early arrival, 60 days upon completion of studies).
 
Report a change of address to OVIS within 10 days of the change, so that your SEVIS record can be updated.
 
Abide by rules requiring disclosure of information and prohibition on criminal activity.
 
Do not work off-campus, unless specifically authorized by OVIS under F-1 regulations.
 
Limit on-campus employment to 20 hours per week during an enrolled term. Students may only work more than 20 hours per week when they are on an earned leave term or during official school breaks.
 
Abide by the unemployment rules and reporting requirements while on post-completion and STEM Optional Practical Training (OPT).
 
Keep your passport valid.
Failure to comply with any of the above-referenced rules can result in the loss of your F-1 immigration status and possibly the accrual of unlawful presence.

The Department of Homeland Security has more information on maintaining status on its Study in the States website.

If You Lose F-1 Status
There is a process to apply for reinstatement should you violate the terms of your F-1 status, however it is a very complicated procedure. Your immigration advisor can assist you with basic information on F-1 reinstatement, but you may need to obtain legal advice from a trusted immigration attorney as well. Information regarding reinstatement can be found on the Department of Homeland Security Study in the States website.