SOURCE: https://www.colorado.edu/isss/2024/09/24/master-your-f-1-status-ultimate-10-point-plan-maintain-your-f-1-status
FILENAME: maintaining_status_colorado_10point.txt

Master your F-1 status: The ultimate 10-point plan to maintain your F-1 status
Published:10/15/2025
10/15/2025
The ISSS webpage on Maintaining F-1 Student Status is an invaluable resource that offers important information on how to protect your F-1 status. It is imperative that you make a conscious effort to fully understand the rules and regulations of your F-1 status.

It is ultimately your responsibility to understand the F-1 rules and how to maintain your F-1 status. If you encounter any uncertainties regarding the maintenance of your F-1 status, contact ISSS.  Your commitment to staying informed and compliant is crucial for maintenance of your F-1 status. 

Maintaining F-1 Student Status
Your eligibility to pursue your academic program and opportunities for employment , school transfers, and program changes depend on maintaining lawful status. Follow these 10 steps to successfully maintain your F-1 status:

Maintain full-time enrollment every fall and spring semester.
Full-time enrollment is only required in the summer if it is your first or final semester.
Exceptions to the full-time enrollment requirement: Academic, Medical, Final Term of Study
Report your final semester to ISSS: all students enrolling in their final semester must submit the Confirmation of Final Semester e-Form, available in the MyISSS portal.
Report new addresses within 10 days of every move so your SEVIS record can be updated.
Active Students: Update your address in the Buff Portal.
Students on post-graduation Optional Practical Training (OPT): Update your address in the SEVP Portal and Buff Portal (for alumni purposes).
Do not work without authorization or beyond allowable employment limits.
Abide by on-campus employment regulations and limitations.
Obtain prior authorization for any off-campus employment opportunities (paid or unpaid) through Curricular Practical Training (CPT), Pre-Completion OPT, Post-Completion OPT, or STEM OPT to comply with related reporting and unemployment rules.
Keep your I-20 up-to-date.
Report all changes of biographical, degree program, and financial support information to ISSS.
Follow proper procedures for extending your I-20, changing educational levels or programs, and transferring schools.
Make normal progress towards completing the course of study documented on your I-20.
Maintain required immigration documents including a valid passport and I-94 throughout your stay in the U.S.
Travel with required documents for re-entry to the U.S. in student status. 
Abide by the rules surrounding the F-1 grace period.
F-1 students have a 60-day grace period at the end of their F-1 program.
During the grace period, you cannot take part in any studies or employment opportunities and cannot exit and re-enter the U.S. as an F-1 student.  
If you do not complete your program, you do not receive a grace period, and you will need to depart the U.S. immediately.
Comply with U.S. tax filing requirements. 
Have fun and build your community here at CU Boulder!
Explore resources, events, and programs to help you make friends, get involved, and create a rich college experience. 
 