SOURCE: https://ovis-intl.dartmouth.edu/immigration/f-1-students/full-course-load-exceptions
FILENAME: maintaining_status_full_course_exceptions.txt

Full Course Load Exceptions
All F-1 students must be enrolled in a full-time course load during all "on" terms in order to maintain status. There are a few exceptions to the full course of study requirement that students must apply for, and the DSO (OVIS advisor) must authorize, before dropping below full-time enrollment. These are called "Reduced Course Load" authorizations or "RCLs" for short. There are three categories of RCLs: medical, final term of study, and academic difficulty during the first term of study. If a student believes they may qualify for an RCL, they should reach out to their OVIS advisor. 

1. Medical Reduced Course Loads
Medical Reduced Course Load
While a student is still an "active" Dartmouth student, OVIS may authorize a reduced course load due to a temporary illness or medical condition one term at a time, not to exceed four terms per academic degree level.

To substantiate the medical condition, the regulations require students requesting a medical RCL to submit documentation from one of the following U.S.-licensed medical practitioners:

U.S.-licensed Medical Doctor;

U.S.-licensed Doctor of Osteopathy; or

U.S.-licensed Clinical Psychologist

OVIS must approve the RCL request and issue an RCL authorization I-20 before the student drops any courses

To request a medical RCL for more than one term, the student must submit an updated request each term, and OVIS must reauthorize the medical RCL prior to either:

The start of the term if the student will not enroll full-time in the upcoming term, OR

Dropping below full-time enrollment if the student is currently enrolled in a full course load

2. Undergraduate Two-Course Loads
What is a Two-Course Load?
According to the Undergraduate (UG) Registrar, "A student may have a two-course load in any 3 terms, as a maximum, during his or her college career. There is no reduction in tuition associated with the taking of a two-course load." Read the full policy here.

Am I allowed to take two courses this term?
Dartmouth considers all undergraduate students to be in full-time status when they take a two-course term, for a maximum of 3 terms. The Student & Exchange Visitor Information System Program Office ("SEVP") has approved this option for F-1 students. Therefore, undergraduate students in F-1 status are allowed to take up to 3 two-course load terms without any immigration consequences. Matriculating transfer (MT) students have different two-course load allowances. MT students should refer to the Registrar's website.

OVIS will issue an explanatory memo the first and, if applicable, third (last) time a student takes a two-course term. The memo should be kept with other permanent immigration records. 

3. Final Term Reduced Course Load
Final Term Reduced Course Load
If a student needs fewer than full-time credits to complete the degree during their final term at Dartmouth and both the department and Registrar have approved the reduced enrollment, the student may apply for a Final Term RCL. 

*Note: OVIS must approve the RCL request and issue an RCL authorization I-20 before the beginning of the final term