SOURCE: https://www.interstride.com/blog/how-to-find-an-on-campus-job-as-an-international-student/
FILENAME: oncampus_jobs_interstride.txt

How to find an on-campus job as an international student

by Interstride

April 17, 2024

It’s common for college students in the US to work part-time while in school, and on-campus jobs are relatively easy for international students to acquire. All international students are eligible to work on-campus without additional work authorization, unlike with off-campus work. Learn the rules for working on an F-1 visa and how to find on-campus jobs for international students.

What’s an on-campus job?
As an F-1 student visa holder, you are authorized to work for a university employer at the school you are attending or at a school-affiliated off-campus location such as a research facility or sports stadium. You must be enrolled in an academic program full-time to qualify for on-campus jobs. As an international student, you can work up to 20 hours per week while school is in session. You can work more than 20 hours per week during periods when school is not in session or during summer vacation before graduation.

There are many different types of on-campus jobs available to undergraduate and graduate students. International students are welcome to apply for the same jobs as domestic students. Some common examples of campus jobs for students include:

Working in the university library
Being a resident advisor (RA) in the dorms
Working for the university bookstore or gift shop
Working as a graduate student instructor or research assistant
Working at a university stadium or sports facility
Benefits of an on-campus job
There are many benefits to having an on-campus job as an international college student in the US. You can gain work experience and references in the US for your resume. Unlike with off-campus work, your job does not need to be related to your field of study, so there are more possibilities. According to US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, you can even work multiple jobs as long as they do not total more than 20 hours per week.

International students on F-1 visas can start working on campus in their first year. There is no waiting period like there is with off-campus work. You may actually be able to start working on campus up to 30 days before the start date on your Form I-20. However, the exact policies about on-campus work for international students vary by school. Contact your school’s international student services office for more information.

There is no limit on the number of months you can work on campus as long as you are an enrolled student, unlike off-campus work with OPT which is limited to 12 months. Furthermore, working on-campus will not affect your eligibility for CPT, pre-completion OPT, or post-completion OPT, and it is possible in some cases for a student to work an on-campus job and an off-campus job through CPT at the same time.

How to find on-campus jobs
International students should be eligible for all on-campus jobs unless the job specifically states otherwise. Because international students do not qualify for federal financial aid, they are not able to apply for federal work-study jobs. Some universities offer institutionally-funded work-study programs for qualifying international students. Check the qualifications listed on each job posting.

Like most jobs in the US, student on-campus jobs usually ask applicants to submit a resume. Visit your college’s career center for help and feedback on your resume. Career centers can also help you find on-campus jobs that you qualify for and apply to them. Keep in mind that on-campus jobs may have a lot of competition, so start applying as early as possible.

Networking is also key in the US. Once you have your resume ready, ask upperclassmen and peers how they found their on-campus jobs. If it’s someone you know from class or the dorms, you could even ask them to be a reference or refer you for the job to increase your chances of getting hired.

Where to look for campus jobs for students
The best place to look for on-campus jobs is your college’s online job board, if they have one. Many US schools use online platforms to post all types of jobs that are open to college students all in one place. International students can use the “On-Campus” filter to find openings they are eligible for. Some schools may also have a physical job board in a central location on campus like the student center or quad.

Interstride tip! Find on-campus and off-campus jobs that are open to hiring international students through Interstride’s platform. Interstride is tailored for international students in the US. Whether you are an undergraduate or graduate student, you can find work through our platform if you attend any of our partnered schools.
Another way to find student on-campus jobs is to actually go to different places that you might like to work, such as the library, cafeteria, or campus box office, and ask if they are hiring. It’s helpful to start with your department as many departments prefer to hire internally. This will also give you work experience and professional references that are relevant to your field.

Final thoughts about on-campus jobs for international students
On-campus jobs do not require any additional work authorization or paperwork for students on F-1 visas. A valid I-20 document is all you need to confirm your eligibility to work on campus. Also, international students can apply for any on-campus jobs at any time during their academic program. These factors make on-campus work an appealing choice for many international students in the US. 