SOURCE: https://ois.usc.edu/2025/12/16/important-travel-update-for-f-1-and-j-1-international-students-and-scholars/
FILENAME: travel_reentry_usc_update.txt


Important Travel Update for F-1 and J-1 International Students and Scholars
Author By annekauf 
Publication date December 16, 2025


Travel Considerations

While students may travel internationally during scheduled university breaks, international travel remains fluid, and new restrictions could be implemented with little notice. The decision to travel internationally should be made carefully. As always, OIS will provide updates as new information becomes available.

Due to the December 16, 2025, Presidential Proclamation, students holding passports from certain countries who do not have a valid F-1 or J-1 visa are advised against international travel at this time.

Before departing and re-entering the U.S., we encourage you to review the OIS Travel page and the answers to frequently asked questions about executive orders and other federal agency actions impacting immigration.

Students who need to renew their F-1 or J-1 visa abroad must schedule an appointment with a U.S. embassy or consulate as soon as possible due to increased security clearance and visa processing times.  

Before returning to the U.S., please ensure you have the following: 

Valid Passport: Must be valid for at least six months beyond your intended date of re-entry. 
Valid Visa: A valid F-1 or J-1 visa is required for re-entry (except for Canadian citizens). If your visa has expired, you must apply for a new one before returning to the U.S. 
Current I-20 or DS-2019: Your Form I-20 (for F-1 students) or DS-2019 (for J-1 students) must be signed for travel. The travel signature is valid for 12 months for enrolled students and 6 months if you are on OPT. 
OPT or STEM OPT: If you are on OPT or STEM OPT, carry your Employment Authorization Document (EAD) along with a job offer letter or proof of ongoing employment. 
Financial Documents: Bring proof of sufficient funds for tuition and living expenses in the U.S. (e.g., bank statements, scholarship, and/or assistantship letters). You may be asked to show proof of funding at the border.  
Revised Visa Interview Waiver Policy 

On February 18, 2025, the Department of State announced an updated policy that changes the eligibility requirements for nonimmigrant visa applicants who may qualify for an in-person visa interview waiver. 

Previously, interview waivers were available for those whose visas had expired within 48 months, a flexibility introduced to address post-COVID backlogs. These new restrictions will reduce the number of eligible applicants, increasing the need for in-person appointments and likely leading to longer visa processing times. Now, nonimmigrant visa applicants may qualify for an interview waiver only if they are renewing a visa in the same category and: 

The prior visa is still valid, or 
The prior visa expired within the past 12 months 
Consular officers may still require in-person interviews on a case-by-case basis or because of local conditions. Check the U.S. embassy or consulate in your region for detailed information about visa application requirements and procedures. 

What to Expect at a Port of Entry

OIS has published guidance on what to expect at a port of entry, including during U.S. Customs and Border Protection secondary inspections, which may include requests for passwords, access to locked electronic devices, and/or review of laptop files, phone data, and social media accounts. 

On April 9, 2025, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) announced that, effective immediately, they would “consider social media content that indicates an alien endorsing, espousing, promoting, or supporting antisemitic terrorism, antisemitic terrorist organizations, or other antisemitic activity as a negative factor in any USCIS discretionary analysis when adjudicating immigration benefit requests.” 

Carrying Your I-94 Record and Reporting Address Changes 

U.S. immigration law requires all nonimmigrants and lawful permanent residents to carry proof of their immigration status at all times and to report any change of address within 10 days.  Failure to comply can lead to serious consequences.

What You Must Carry 

Under Section 264(e) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, all non-U.S. citizens age 18 and older must carry valid proof of immigration status at all times—even during domestic travel or daily activities. 

You must carry one of the following: 

F-1/J-1 students and other nonimmigrants: I-94 record or Employment Authorization Document (EAD card) 
Lawful permanent residents: Permanent Resident Card (Form I-551 or “green card”) 
It is also highly recommended that you always carry photo identification. 
How to Report a Change of Address 

All noncitizens living in the United States must report any change of address within 10 days of moving. 

For students in F-1 or J-1 status (including those on OPT, STEM OPT, or Academic Training), all address changes should be made in Trojan International. 
F-2 and J-2 Dependent Registration 

A new registration requirement applies to F-2 and J-2 dependents who turn 14 while in the U.S.  These dependents must complete Form G-325R and attend a biometrics appointment within 30 days of their 14th birthday or by April 12, 2025, whichever is later.  This requirement does not apply to F-1 or J-1 students.  Please review the Registration Requirement for F-2 and J-2 Children for more information. 

OIS Drop-in Advising and University Support Resources

USC’s international students are important and appreciated members of the Trojan Family.  If you need assistance, OIS advisors are available to meet with you via Zoom, without an appointment.  Check out the Drop-in Advising page for details. In addition, the university provides a range of resources to students to support them in navigating challenging situations. We encourage you to take advantage of them.