Travel and Re-Entry for F-1 Visa Holders
Current Travel Guidance
ISSO continues to advise caution with international travel, as U.S. immigration policies are unpredictable and can rapidly change without notice. If your visa is expired, renewing it could be uncertain and may cause extended delays, potentially affecting your ability to return and continue your studies or research. Unfortunately, ISSO is unable to guarantee your ability to return. At this time, ISSO does not anticipate that domestic travel within the US will be impacted by the new Presidential administration.

A note on electronic devices: When entering the U.S., the U.S. Customs and Border Protection officer may review your electronic devices, including social media. Please review the ACLU's article for preparation tipsexternal site (opens in a new window) before traveling.

Social Media and Apps: Ensure your online presence reflects compliance with U.S. laws and visa regulations. Evaluate your social media presence to ensure it presents a professional and appropriate representation of yourself to any embassy officials or border protection officer.

Entering the U.S.
Upon arriving in the US, you will be required to pass through inspection by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP). At that time, you will be expected to present evidence that you have been maintaining your F-1 visa status and will continue to do so. Depending on whether or not you are currently an enrolled student or you have transitioned into OPT (or STEM OPT), the documents you may be asked to provide will differ.

Prior to Departing the U.S.
The ISSO strongly advises all active F-1 and J-1 students to review the UCSF Office of Ethics and Compliance webpage on Travel Securityexternal site (opens in a new window) for resources on traveling abroad and re-entering for UCSF-related business. The devices you travel with and the information contained on those devices are subject to inspection when entering the U.S. so review the informaiton on this webpage to ensure you are not inadvertently breaking any rules related to export control.

F-1 Visa Holders Enrolled in a Degree Program
Passport (valid at least 6 months into the future)
Valid F-1 Visa
Most Recent I-20 with Valid Travel Signature (travel signatures for active students are valid for 1 year from the date of the last signature)
I-901 "SEVIS Fee" Receipt (print a copy at www.fmjfee.comexternal site (opens in a new window))
Most Recent Transcripts
Proof of Enrollment in the Current or Next Term
Financial Documents (bank statement or department stipend letter showing sufficient funding to meet or exceed the amount on your I-20)
F-1 Visa Holders on OPT or STEM OPT
Passport (valid at least 6 months into the future)
Valid F-1 Visa
Most Recent I-20 with Valid Travel Signature (travel signatures for active students are valid for 6 months from the date of the last signature)
I-901 "SEVIS Fee" Receipt (print a copy at www.fmjfee.comexternal site (opens in a new window))
Valid EAD
Proof of Employment (such as an employment verification, offer letter, or recent pay stub. The employer name should match the employer name on page 2 of the I-20)
I-20 Travel Signature
The ISSO can email a travel-signed I-20 to you to print out. To request a new I-20 with a travel signature, please complete our request formexternal site (opens in a new window). Once you receive your new I-20, you must print it out and carry the paper copy for travel purposes.

Renewing Your F-1 Visa Stamp at the US Embassy
Review the U.S. Embassy or Consulate websiteexternal site (opens in a new window) where you will apply for your visa for location-specific information. In general, we advise that you apply for your F-1 visa at a US embassy in your home country or country or residence.

When renewing your visa, anticipate delays, especially if you will be traveling during holiday or peak travel seasons. Security checks can delay visa issuance by several weeks. Neither UCSF nor the ISSO can assist in the event of a security check. To the best of our knowledge, it is not possible to expedite a security check and all that can be done is wait for the process to be completed.
You do not need to pay the SEVIS fee for visa renewals. The SEVIS fee is a one-time fee paid prior to starting your F-1 visa program. As long as your SEVIS Number has not changed, then you do not need to re-pay this fee.
You can only renew your visa at a U.S. consulate abroad. Renewing your visa inside the US is not possible.
U.S. consulates and embassies will generally require the following steps:

Submit the DS-160 Nonimmigrant Visa Applicationexternal site (opens in a new window)
Pay the nonimmigrant visa application fee (NIV Fee)
If required to do so, schedule your interview for an F-visa at the most convenient U.S. Consulate or Embassy. The consulate will not schedule an appointment for you. Review the Department of State websiteexternal site (opens in a new window) for visa interview tips.
Send (if your interview has been waived) or bring with you to the embassy the following documents:
 

F-1 Visa Holders Enrolled in a Degree Program
Passport (valid at least 6 months into the future)
Most Recent Form I-20
I-901 SEVIS Fee Receipt
Financial Documents (you should expect to show funding in the amount printed on your I-20)
Visa Application Confirmation Page
Visa Application Fee Payment Receipt
Most Recent Transcripts and Enrollment List
F-1 Visa Holders on OPT or STEM OPT
Passport (valid at least 6 months into the future)
Most Recent Form I-20
I-901 SEVIS Fee Receipt
Financial Documents (you should expect to show funding in the amount printed on your I-20)
Visa Application Confirmation Page
Visa Application Fee Payment Receipt
Valid EAD (OPT or STEM OPT)
Proof of Employment (such as a job offer letter or employment verification letter form the employer listed on page 2 of your I-20
Applying for a Visa as a Third-Country National (TCN)
Effective September 6, 2025, the US Department of State announced that all visa applicants should apply for their non-immigrant visa in their country of nationality (passport country). If you are a resident of a country that is different from the country that issued your passport, you may be able to apply at the US embassy in your country of residence. However, you should contact the embassy in your country of residence to confirm that they will accept your F-1 visa application. You may be asked to provide evidence of your residency status in order to apply.

If you are a national of a country that is not accepting nonimmigrant visa applications, please follow the instructions on the US Department of State websiteexternal site (opens in a new window) to locate the US embassy or consulate where you must apply for your nonimmigrant visa.

Your New I-94
Each time you enter the US, after you have completed inspection and have been admitted into the US, the CBP will issue you a new I-94.

The ISSO request that you always download your most recent I-94external site (opens in a new window) to ensure you have been admitted into the US in the correct status (Class of Admission: F-1, Admit Until Date: D/S).

If there are any mistakes on the I-94, such as a missing middle name or incorrect class of admission, please contact the ISSO immediately for instructions on how to request a correction.

You should always print your newest I-94 and carry it with you while you are inside the US.

Additional Considerations
As of June 18, 2025, the Department of State requires F and J visa applicantsexternal site (opens in a new window) to set their social media privacy settings to "public" as part of the visa application process.

For an overview of the F-1 visa application process, please see the U.S. Department of State websiteexternal site (opens in a new window).