SOURCE: https://international.northeastern.edu/ogs/new-students/f-1-visa-process/
FILENAME: visa_application_northeastern.txt

Visa Interview Appointments Must Be Scheduled in Country of Residence or Nationality

Effective September 6, 2025, all applicants for F/J nonimmigrant visas must schedule their visa interview appointment at a U.S. Embassy or Consulate in their country of nationality or residence.

Applying for an F-1 Visa
For comprehensive information about the F-1 student visa application process, please visit the U.S. Department of State website.

Students are encouraged to apply for their F-1 visa as soon as they receive their Northeastern Form I-20. U.S. Embassies or U.S. Consulates are able to issue F-1 entry visas up to 365 days before the program start date listed on your I-20.

All visa interviews must be scheduled in the applicant’s country of residence or nationality. In most countries, student visa applicants must appear in person for the visa interview. However, each U.S. Embassy or U.S. Consulate sets its own interview policies and procedures. Students should consult the specific embassy website or call for application instructions.

Visit the Website of U.S. Embassies, Consulates, and Diplomatic Missions
U.S. Department of State estimated Global Visa Wait Times 
The following documents are typically required for the F-1 visa application:
Online Non-immigrant Visa Application Form (DS-160) confirmation page
See below if you do not yet have a local U.S. address
For a contact person, you can put the name of the person who signed your I-20. You can find this information under “School Attestation” on your I-20.
View more Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) on completing the DS-160 here.
Visa application fee payment receipt (visit the U.S. Embassy or U.S. Consulate website for specific instructions)
Form I-20 issued by OGS at Northeastern University
If you have not yet requested your Form I-20 from Northeastern University, please find more information on this process here.
Valid passport (the passport should be valid for at least six months after your date of entry into the U.S.)
Evidence of financial support (proof of sufficient funds for estimated cost of one academic year)
Student and Exchange Visitor Information System (SEVIS) I-901 fee payment receipt
A copy of your acceptance letter to Northeastern University
One photograph (see the U.S. Department of State website for photo requirements)
All applicants should be prepared to provide additional information, such as transcripts or diplomas from previously attended institutions, or documents which demonstrate that the applicant intends to return home after their studies. Dependents will receive their own I-20 with their own unique SEVIS ID to apply for the F-2 visa. Dependents are not required to pay the SEVIS fee.

No assurances regarding the issuance of visas can be given in advance. Therefore, final travel plans or the purchase of non-refundable tickets should not be made until a visa has been issued. After the visa has been issued, please be sure the F-1 visa stamp in your passport is accurate and that your original I-20 has been returned to you as you will need to have it in hand when entering the U.S.

Note: Citizens of Canada and Bermuda do not need to apply for an F-1 visa but they are required to have the I-20 and pay the SEVIS I-901 fee before entering the U.S. to study.

Online Presence and Social Media Review in the Visa Application Process
Updated June 23, 2025
The U.S. Department of State (DoS) has announced expanded vetting of “online presence” for all F and J visa applicants, including students and exchange visitors. As part of this consular process, applicants are required to:

Disclose all social media identifiers on the DS-160 visa application
Set their social media profiles to “public” for consular review
Media reports based on a cable from the Secretary of State indicate that consular officers will be required to review applicants’ online presence for “any indications of hostility towards the citizens, culture, government, institutions, or founding principles of the United States”. Reports also state that that consular officers should flag “advocacy for, aid or support for foreign terrorists, and other threats to U.S. national security” and “support for unlawful antisemitic harassment or violence”.

You can review the DOS announcement here.

U.S. Address
If you do not have a U.S. address yet for the online non-immigrant visa application form (DS-160), you can use the Northeastern University address and phone number for your specific campus.

The F-1 Visa Interview
During your F-1 visa interview you may be asked questions about your studies, your university choice, how you are planning to pay for your education, your intent to depart the U.S. upon completion of your program, and more. Here are some of the common questions that you may expect.
Most commonly asked F-1 visa interview questions
What’s your purpose for going to the U.S.?
Why did you choose to study in the U.S.?
Which University will you attend?
What will be your degree and major?
Did you go to a University at your home country?
What is your occupation at the moment?
Why don’t you continue your studies in your home country?
How many universities did you apply to and in which countries?
How many universities sent you an admittance letter?
Have you ever been to the U.S. before?
Why did you choose a university in Boston?
Where will you be staying while in the U.S.?
What do you know about U.S. educational system?
What is your English test score?
What is your GPA from your previous institution?
How will you deal with the cultural differences?
Who will support you financially while you are in the U.S.?
What do your parents do for a living?
Have you received any scholarships for your education?
How much is the cost of your education in the U.S.?
What are your plans after you finish with your studies in the U.S.?
Do you have relatives or friends in the U.S.?
Do you have a career that you want to pursue after you finish with your studies?
Tell me a little bit about your family. Do you have any siblings?

Visa Application Outcomes
Please note that if you do not receive your F-1 visa prior to the start of your program, you may be advised to defer your admission to a future term.

Entering the U.S.
When preparing for your arrival to the U.S., you should plan your travel according to the information provided by your college. According to immigration regulations, F-1 student visa holders can enter the U.S. up to 30 days prior to the program report date on the I-20.

Students transferring to Northeastern University in F-1 status from another institution or changing their degree level at Northeastern may stay in the U.S. or travel between programs. And, they may enter the U.S. more than 30 days before the new program start date listed on your I-20.
