SOURCE: https://ovis-intl.dartmouth.edu/immigration/f-1-students/employment/stem-optional-practical-training-opt/application-process
FILENAME: work_auth_dartmouth_stem_opt_apply.txt

F-1 Students
Application Process
Overview
After receiving a STEM OPT recommendation from OVIS, you may submit the STEM OPT extension to USCIS up to 90 days before your Post-Completion OPT period expires.  Your STEM OPT application must be received by USCIS before your Post-Completion OPT expires.

Timely filing of the STEM OPT application automatically extends your work authorization in the U.S. for 180 days beyond the expiration of your OPT, or until a final decision is made on the STEM OPT application. 

While your STEM OPT application remains pending, you should not travel outside the U.S. if your Post-Completion OPT has already expired or will expire during your trip abroad. 

Steps for Applying:
Review the OVIS STEM OPT Workshop on Canvas. You can self-enroll in the course here.
 
Go to iDartmouth to complete the STEM OPT Extension Request e-form for OVIS. Read all e-form instructions carefully. 
 
Upload requested documents, including the completed and signed Form I-983 STEM OPT Training Plan
Notes:
I-983 pg. 2 "Start Date of Employment": this is the start of your STEM extension unless your job starts after this date
Section 5 of the I-983 "Employer Site Information": use the address where you are physically working
If planning to file your I-765 application on paper by mail, you will need to upload a draft Form I-765 for OVIS review as part of your STEM OPT request.
If planning to file your I-765 application online, we will ask for a screenshot of your eligibility category from the USCIS online application via myUSCIS --> Getting Started --> Basic Eligibility
DO NOT submit your I-765 application, by mailing to USCIS or submitting payment on the USCIS system, until you have received your STEM OPT recommended I-20 from OVIS! 
   3. Submit your e-form request in iDartmouth. OVIS will issue a Form I-20 with STEM OPT recommendation once approved.

   4. Make a complete copy of the application filing for your records

  5. Submit your complete I-765 application application as inidicated, either online or via courier/certified mail service that provides a record of receipt/delivery

USCIS must receive your I-765 application before your Post-Completion OPT expires and no later than 60 days after the STEM OPT recommended I-20 is issued.
If USCIS receives your application after your OPT expires, or more than 60 days after the date of signature on the Form I-20, the application will be denied.
Once you have a receipt number for your application, you can check the USCIS Online Case Status for updates on your application.

Premium Processing
On March 6, 2023 USCIS announced the expansion of premium (expedited) processing for certain F-1 OPT and STEM OPT extension applications.  The premium processing fee is $1500, in addition to the standard application filing fee.  USCIS will adjudicate the application within 30 days of receipt.  USCIS will accept the online Form I-907 premium processing request in 2 phases:  1. Beginning March 6, 2023 for students with pending I-765 OPT and STEM OPT applications; and, 2. Beginning April 3, 2023 for students with new OPT and STEM OPT applications.  It is important to consider current USCIS processing times before deciding whether to request premium processing.