SOURCE: https://ovis-intl.dartmouth.edu/immigration/f-1-students/employment/on-campus-employment
FILENAME: work_auth_dartmouth_oncampus.txt

F-1 Students
On-Campus Employment
On-campus employment is employment that occurs on the premises of Dartmouth College for a Dartmouth College paycheck or other remuneration (lodging, meals, etc.).  To be eligible for on-campus employment, students must be enrolled in a full course of study and maintain valid F-1 status.  Students may work up to 20 hours per week while school is in session, and full time during official school breaks.  If you are uncertain whether specific employment activity constitutes "on-campus employment" please check with OVIS. 

Eligibility
F-1 students sponsored by Dartmouth College may work on campus provided they:

Maintain legal F-1 status
 
Do not work more than a total of 20 hours per week during academic terms, and full time employment is allowed during official school breaks and earned leave terms.
Verifying Eligibility
All students working on-campus must complete the "Employment Eligibility Verification" (CIS Form I-9). The I-9 must be updated with Dartmouth Payroll each time you renew your work permission or extend your program. For on-campus employment, simply show your valid Form I-20 and your passport.
 
You will also be required to apply for a Social Security Number (SSN) once you have on-campus employment.
 
You will be required to file tax forms by April 15 following the end of each tax year.
Working improperly or without authorization is a serious violation of your status. Please make sure your on-campus employment complies with these regulations and that you check with OVIS before accepting any off-campus employment. If you fail to comply with your responsibilities regarding employment, you will be ineligible for benefits normally granted to F-1 students and, in some situations, you may be required to leave the country or accrue unlawful presence.

PhD Students and Graduate Students who are members of the Graduate Student Union
F-1 students enrolled in a PhD program with a Notice of Assignment for a full Research and/or Teaching Assistant assignment are expected to work 20 hours per week, and are not eligible for any additional on-campus employment, including residential advisor, fellow and other positions.  F-1 students in other graduate programs who are members of the union must review the Notice of Assignment to confirm the number of expected work hours per week to ensure on-campus employment hours do not exceed the 20-hour per week limit.

Transferring to Another School
Beginning on your transfer release date or your I-20 end date, whichever comes first, you will no longer have on-campus employment authorization.

On-Campus Employment at an Off-Campus Location
Immigration regulations allow F-1 students sponsored by Dartmouth, or F-1 students sponsored by other schools, to work “on campus at an off-campus location” provided:

The location is educationally affiliated with the school.
 
The educational affiliation is associated with your F-1 sponsoring school's established curriculum, or if you are a graduate student, is related to a graduate-level research project which your school has contracted to perform.
 
The work is an integral or important part of your program of study. For example, if your field of study is marine biology and your school has an off-campus marine biology research facility, you may work there. That employment will be defined as "on campus."
F-1 students sponsored by Dartmouth must check with OVIS to verify that the employment meets these requirements. F-1 students sponsored by another school will need their home-school Designated School Official’s permission for “on-campus employment at an off-campus location.”  Failure to obtain that permission will result in a “Tentative Non Confirmation” when non-Dartmouth students attempt to complete their I-9 requirement at Dartmouth Payroll.