US study visa process, the F1 visa, how to do it first of all from securing an admission. But I want to touch on the topic. One of the beautiful things about the US is that they are one of the very few countries that can give you 100% funding. How can you secure 100% funding? If you are standing student and you know it and you have the evidence to show it by your grades and in fact from your employment history, all of that, US might actually be the best destination for you. And I'm saying it because then

I've seen and help people to work the same pathway to secure admissions to prestigious institutions in the US, get funding opportunities and then scale to apply for their F1 visa process that we're going to do and walk you through the process shortly. So if you meet those criterias, I will elaborate on it later on how you can actually go about it. So we just get onto the F1 visa process for you. First of all, remember if you're looking to secure an admission in the US, in Canada, in the UK, in

Ireland, we are your go-to options. You can reach out 36 Travel and Tours or reach out to me directly to help process your admission for you. So, all you need to do is to send a DM on either Instagram or Tik Tok for 36 travels or directly to me on Instagram or send us a WhatsApp message and that admission process can be done for you. We have multiple schools and multiple programs. As you can see clearly, over 2,000 plus programs found in multiple schools in Canada, in the US, in the UK, wherever

it is. Whether it's your friend or your colleague that you think that needs this video or needs this process, you can reach out on their behalf or share this video with them so that they can reach out to us. Back to the F1 visa process. Success rates is not exceedingly high when it comes to securing because the US wants the best. So, are you one of the best? If you're one of the best, then this video is for you. How do you apply for the F1 visa? The first process is to secure admission. If you've already

gotten that, then you make sure that your school issues your I20. After your I20 has been issued, you pay your service fee. And welcome to the process of your appointment. Ensure that you fill the DS160 form, which I'm going to guide you through the process, showing you how to fill the DS160 form as a student based on the processes that I use for myself. then you can replicate the same for yourself and then go for your interview. In this video as well, you'll find the working process on how

you can actually schedule your interview. Good thing is that unlike the normal regular B1 B2 visa, interview process for F1 visa is different. So even though you might not get a date immediately, there are options for how you can get an earlier date. So don't go anywhere. Stay tuned as I walk you through the process on how to secure your US F1 visa. And don't forget to subscribe to this [snorts] channel, like this video, and share it with somebody that you think need it. So, we are live

on the US Department of State official website where you're going to have to fill your DS160 form. If you've been following me, you'll be able to tell what the DS160 is because I've done a previous video for visit visa application, which I'm just going to tag the link up here for you if your purpose is to have a visit visa application [music] done. But this particular application is F1 visa and interestingly it falls under the category of non-immigrant visa application and you

still need to fill the same DS160 form. So what do we do? We proceed to where [music] they have select one to choose the country where we'll be submitting our application have our interview done and also [music] biometrics collected. The new updates from the US mission is that you cannot have your visa [music] application done in a country that is not your country of residence. So in the past you could maybe be a resident of Nigeria and have your appointment [music] done in Ghana or South Africa.

That's no longer applicable. So you need to have your application done [music] in your country of residence. For the purpose of this application, you'll be choosing Nigeria and we choose Lagos. Once you do that, the page would always refresh and it's going to give us a new code that we have to enter here so that we can start the application process. DPS C8U. Click here on start an application. Remember the visa application would ask you to upload a digital photo of yourself. So you should

have taken that. So but first of all let us get started. Start an application. When you start the application you have to acknowledge the fraud and abuse notice here. So you click on agree and scroll down. Once you scroll down you need to note down this code which is the most important information of your application. this particular application ID. In order for you to have it save, I recommend you just take a quick screenshot, which I have done as you can see. [music] That way, it has the information stored on my desktop and I

can call it back at any [music] time. Then the next thing you need to do, alternatively, you can actually click on print application ID [music] and that way you just store the application ID code. The next thing is to enter your mother's mother's name. In my case, I'll just use my surname. Use something that you can recollect so that you don't just go and start thinking what's my mother mother's name. So you click on [music] continue. I use my surname there and I'm going to click continue. Progressing the

next thing is to enter your personal information. We started the form filling process as you can clearly see here. So my personal information my son name is my given names chibu full name in alphabet. I do not have that cuz technology is not available for me to impute it. Have you ever used other names? If you've used other names, this is usually applicable for those who have been married and they had a previous meeting name. So, you have to indicate accordingly. But in my case, as a man, it's no.

Do you have a teleode that represents your name? No. What's your sex? Mine it's [music] male. Marital status single. place and date of birth. Before we fill this place and date of birth, I just want to quickly show you a couple of forms and other information. But let me just quickly choose a random date here. So I would show you what I've done. May 1, 1995. Then city of birth Lagos, [music] state of birth, Lagos, country of birth, Nigeria. Then you save. Now this is one of the most important part of this application.

Always save your application and click on continue. That way, if the website signs you out, you can come back and retrieve it and start off where you last stopped because if you do not stay, [music] save it. You're going to have to start again from beginning and you do not want that happening to you. So, click to next, which is personal information too. On this particular place, you're just going to choose your country of origin of which mine is Nigeria. So, I just choose that quickly. [music] Do you hold or have held any

other nationality? In my case, it's no. Are you a permanent resident of another country? This is for my Canadian brothers. [music] In my case, it's no. Or maybe UK, those with ILR and so on. National identification number. Yes, I do have one. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1. Then social security number. No. Taxpayer ID number. No. So, click on save again. So, for now, I'm going to hold on here. So I can take you through a couple of documents I already have handy [music] while filling this application.

So if I come back and it's logged me out, all I need to [music] do is to login again with this code. So let's go. Here I have handy my offer letter from the institution which is a dummy offer letter. In this case is South University. It has my student ID clearly shown here. And then you could also see the program of study, the time, the [music] the mode of study as well. And if it's conditional or unconditional, see my name. And that's about it with the offer. Then you go to the I20, which

I also have very handy on the side from the school. This is what an I20 would look like. The official one would also look something very similar to this. [music] It would have your name, which you can see AC HQ, HQ here, including date of birth. Here I chose 20 May 1995. Then education level you have masters you have whatever you have the total breakdown of your spend student funding including tuition fee living expense books and travel total. Now remember vividly that if you're looking to secure

an admission I'd already mentioned that you can reach out to us to assist with your admission process. So these are what it is and you want to take note of this because the school address is here and you have to fill this [music] information into the DS160 form. So we're going to go back but before we go back let's see what the I90 looks like. This I90 [music] is for your service fee. If you don't know what your service fee is is actually a unique fee you pay [music] after you secured an admission for the

processing of your visa. So it's a student and exchange vistor program fee. It's [music] $350. This is an amount that is due. So it will carry your name and also carry details about you. It is usually processed in the US or you can look for any Western Union close to you [music] to process this particular fee and have it done. It's extremely important that you do this before you even start filling your DS164. So make sure your service is paid and processed. I have handy as well my flight itinerary which says [music] that

I intend to arrive the US Austin, Texas where my program would be and where my station is [music] at. I intend to arrive on the 28th of December. As you can see on this flight itinerary, it's a dummy flight itinerary. So you shouldn't look to wanting to use it. So but for the sake of this application, we're just going to be using this information here. So we'll go back and now so what's the purpose of my trip to the US is definitely to study which is academic or language student which is F. Then

specify is F1. If you have a child maybe or your spouse, you can indicate for F2. They will also have their F2 visas [music] or F2 documents issued to them. So you have from the school students here we choose and proceed. Have you made specific travel plans? In this case yes always say yes because it shows intent and that you have already had lot of things planned. Remember I showed you the travel itinerary here which has the [music] information about when I intend to arrive to US and the flight number

which is DL1170. [music] So I'm just going to come here and choose my date of arrival as 28th December given that my program was [music] due to commence when you can see it says program start and end date is 10th January 2026 and I intended to arrive December. Rightfully you can arrive a month before the start of your program to [music] allow you to settle in. So I can even arrive on the 10th of December, but I booked 28th December. So I'm just going to proceed back and then [music] select 28th December

2025 as my date of arrival with DL 11107 and arrival city is Austin. Then departure city is the same Austin. So, I'm just going to choose it as maybe 28th of August [snorts] 2027. Remember to check your departure date, you need to check when your program ends. My program ends June 2027, but I choose to [music] leave 2 months later to allow me to prepare and organize myself 28th August 2027. Departure flight if known DL 1 0. You can choose just a random [music] flight there or look for a flight that leaves Austin

and just choose it as the one that you would live in. So Austin, Texas is also where we're leaving. Location where you plan to visit is strictly Austin, Texas. Address where you stay in the US. Address where you will stay. I recommend as a student you can choose your on campus address and in this [music] case just come back to your school or reach out to your school to direct you on the particular on campus address. [music] So you'll know what to fill in there. If you don't already have accommodation

sorted out, you can they can sort it out for you or give you an option to sort it out post arrival. In this case is 1220 W. Louis Henna Boulevard. So we're just going to choose that 1220 W. Louis Henna Boulevard and Round Rock, Texas. So that's uh Round Rock Cities. Austin and state [music] is Texas. So the zip code is provided here 78681. [music] So we just choose it here 78681. Person paying for trip self. If you have a sponsor you indicate accordingly. You have other person present employer as

the case may be. [music] You have other organization depending you choose or maybe it's your parents. So in this case, we're just going to choose this and click on continue. So if you notice, I immediately saved just so that I have this information stored and in case it logs me out, I can immediately reassess and continue from where I stopped. Are there another person's traveling with [music] you? For me, it's no. If you're traveling with your family, your kids or whatn not, you

indicate [music] yes. So, previous US travel. Click on next. Have you ever been in the US? For me, yes. But let's assume as most applicants would be in their position, they probably haven't traveled to the US yet. So, we just choose no for the purpose of this application. Have you ever been issued a US visa before? Well, no, because most people that will be applying have probably not been issued before, unlike me who have been issued and have traveled to the US in the past. Have you ever been refused a US visa? Some people

have been refused. You have to indicate yes, some haven't. And when you indicate yes, they ask you to specify the reason. So, you just indicate whatever the reason was for your refusal. This case, no. Has anyone ever filed an immigrant petition on your behalf? Well, no. If that's you, you choose accordingly. Next. Address and phone number. Number one, Victory Street Ecoi, Lagos. [music] Country or region? Nigeria. Is this the same as your mailing address? Yes. Phone number 0812 3 4 5 6 7.

Uh, secondary phone number? No. Work phone number? No. Have you used any other phone numbers for me? No. [music] So I choose my email as ephuko@gmail.com. This is actually not my real email. Do you have any other email addresses? No, of course I do. And if this were a real application, I [music] would indicate maybe one extra social media. This is very important. You need to indicate all your social media accounts. So let's first start with histogram which would we all know it effects m remember if you do not indicate [music]

what your Instagram is or what your social media accounts are it can constitute [music] a reason for refusal. So always try to be as truthful as possible when you're filling this application. So for YouTube we have the same effects m which other social media platform do I have? I think we have Twitter. Then I just choose the same thing again. If XML that's about it then do you wish to provide any information about your presence on any website or applications you have used within the last 5 years?

Well nope. So you just click on save and that's about it. Continue again. So this time around we click next so that we can move on to the next [music] page which is passport information and fill the details of what we need to do there. Type of passport is regular. Most people are regular passport holders. So we're just [music] going to choose uh B 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 and then passport book number 64 for those who have uh who have 64 pages. This is you have to count it. Some people do have 32 pages, but I know

that if your passport has a 10-year validity, certainly going to be 64 pages. Where was this passport or travel document issued? So, let's choose Ecoi. Let's choose Lagos. And then we choose issuance date as 2nd January 2025 and expiry as 2035 January 01. Have you ever lost or had a passport stolen? And in my case, no. So now stir up to US contact. One of the most interesting parts of these forms. What's the surname or contact person in the US? Now you go back to your I20. So you can

see the details of the person. So under your I20 [music] here, they will generally provide you the information of your contact person or your I20. In this case, I've removed that for confidentiality reasons. So I do not expose [music] the information. But if this were an original I20, you're going to see the name of maybe your dean of affairs. It will be here, [music] school official to contact upon arrival here. So let's just choose Carrie Davids as the name of [music] our contact person. So Carrie Davis

organization name is the name of your school which is South University. [music] We're just going to indicate it here. South University Austin relationship to you. You can see school official on the drop down here. So you select it. Then address is the school address again. 1220. Look at it here. Louis Henna W. Louis Henna Boulevard Round Rock, Texas 78681. So we just do that. And then phone number perhaps is all those there are 012121212 [music] email address you should have your school's email address. So let's just

say the person's email address is c.dav south university.com. So let's save is okay. So we click on save and click on continue [music] the application. Go next to family. Father's full name is fully if it has as my father's name. Date of birth, let me choose 4th February 1960. Is your father in the US? Well, nope. Your mother's full name as well is fully. Give her choice there. gave her 01 January 1968. So is your mother in the US? No. Do you have any immediate relatives not

including parents in the US? In my case, yes, I have a younger brother there. So if you do have immediate relative that you know that you need to say, especially your sibling or maybe your parents. Aha. But they said not including your parents because you've already indicated on the form here that they are not in the US. But for immediate relative you have to indicate appropriately in this case I would have chosen yes but let me just choose no because most applicants will choose no. Do you have any other relatives? Well no

other than my brother but I didn't indicate it because this is a dummy application. So we click on next which is to work and train another very interesting path that you need to take note of. Primary occupation in my case business here. Yeah. So, my employer is 360 Travel and Tours Limited. Address number 14 Alen Avenue leagos 10001 0813242 4004 start date let's say okay I've been doing the job since 01 January 2020 income. Let's put my income at 1 million. Describe my duties. I am the director

of 360 travel and tours and I lead a team of 50 persons where we provide travel management [music] services for highprofile clients. and corporations. Corporations I am responsible for leadership and provision of new contacts or clientele in the business. So, I'm just trying to make it as brief as possible, just so you know. But, however, this should be as extensive as possible. I don't want to have to waste our time here. [music] You need it. Write as much as possible as you can write about your job. It's your job and

you should be able to speak confidently about your role during your appointment cuz they were going to ask you what you do. So, let's click on save and then we'll move on to the next page on previous employment. So what about my previous employment? Let's see. Okay. Were you previous employed? Yes, I was previously employed and I worked for EA Solutions as my previous employer and street address as maybe number 10 road as Saba Delta states 400 101 one telephone number 080 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Job title was marketing manager

supervisor's name Daniel Isua Michael employment date let's say okay I started working here 6th June [music] 2017 And I quit. And I quit [music] 15th December which ties with my previous employment 2019. Describe your duty. Well, as a marketing officer, I brought and secured new leads for the company and so on and so on. So that's how you're going to just talk extensively about what your role is. So we don't waste time there. Have you attended any educational institution at secondary

level or above? Of course, yes. In my case, I attended Madona. So, this is my opportunity to talk about it. If you want to add another job that you've done, you can add another job as well. But I'm just doing two so you at least have an insight. In this case, Madona University. Where is it? [music] Augo. Enugu. Enugu. Postal code 500272. [music] Course of study chemical engineering date of attendance were let's see 14 October 2010 to 31st August 2015. So save continue. So from here we're going to click next.

I've satisfied my employment history including my study history. Do you belong to a clan or tribe? Yes, please. Clan or tribe? Ebo. Language that you speak? English. And then I also speak EU which is my local tribe in my country. I don't know what yours might be where you're from. Have you traveled out of the countries within the last 5 years? Well, for me, yes. So let's start by listing Belgium. I've also been to other places such as Singapore and I've also been to Tunisia.

So let me just list these three for the purpose. There are a lot of countries I've traveled to but let's stop there. Have you belonged to contributed to or worked for any professional, social or charitable organization? Yes. In my case, Rotary International and Junior Chambers International. Do you have any special skills or training such as firearms, explosive, nuclear weapon? No. Have you served in the military? No. Have you ever been a member of a vigilante or parameter unit? [music] No. Click on next to security

questions. Security questions I'm just going to answer. No. No. No. For them. Do you have any communicable disease? No. Do you have any mental disease? No. Have you ever been a drug abuser? No. And so on and so forth. We move on to part two. Have you been arrested or or convicted of any crime? No. Violated or engaged in conspiracy? No. Are you coming to the US to engage in prostitution or lawful commercialized vices? No. Have you ever involved in or do you seek to engage in money laundering? No. Have you ever committed

or conspired to commit human trafficking? No. No. No. Next. No. No. No. You can take your time to read all of these security questions and answer appropriately which of them applies to you, but I don't want to host waste time here. So, I'm just going to click no for all of them. I'm already familiar with what questions they are and they are security questions about your background. So for me, none of them applies to me. [music] Remember, I've been approved the US visa. So I certainly have answered all these

questions in the past for myself. [music] So you need to answer them, read them, and then choose accordingly which applies to you. So we're going to scroll down to the last part and then have you ever voted in the United States in violation of any law regulation? Nope. Have you ever announced Have you ever renounced United States citizenship for the purpose of avoiding taxation? Nope. So now we now go to the student exchange visitor visa. They're going to ask you for contact persons whom they can reach

if they want to. In this case, these people should not be your relative or your sibling or your parents. None of them should listed here. So other acquaintances or people who have worked in the position of supervisor, people that you can recommend or that can also recommend you. So let's just put Mr. James Hilton as these are just random names I'm putting [music] here as number 30 Frederick Frederick Street Lagos. Telephone number 08 02323 4345. Email address is james@gmail.com. You can put your professors here as

well. So just so you know, Sylvia Lisa, sorry the names are just coming randomly to my mind. So let's choose number one calcin straight oju legos 11 1 0 0 and phone number 070 67675656 [music] email address Lisagmail.com That's about that. Then we click on next to your service details. Your service number is on your I20 and also on your I90. And this is where it usually is which is this figure you have here. So this is actually a dummy number just randomly produced so you don't think

it's real. So you just come here and paste. School is South University. Course of study is MBA, Master of Business Administration. Street is 1220 W Boulevard W. Louis. Come back here. Louis Henna Boulevard. Yeah. Louis Henna Boulevard and Round Rock. Text 7861. Round Rock, Austin, Texas 78681. So you click on save, continue. And now to the photo part. And now you're going to upload your photo. So we're just going to upload the photo here. Click on upload. And Choose photo. Mhm. So the photo is selected and I click on

continue. The next thing is save. Continue once more. And now you now go to review them before you now submit. So on this review page you're you're required to go through everything you filled. As you can see everything we've done together all through you go through it from the beginning to the very end and if there anything you want to adjust you can just click on edit [music] on the particular section that you want to edit and you can edit it finally before submitting [music] because then once

you've submitted you've submitted it. So if you make any mistake it means that you probably will need to fill in DS once it's the form once you have submitted it. Now this is particularly the place where after submitting a confirmation page is generated and you're required to print your com confirmation page. [music] I always recommend that you email the same copy of your confirmation page to your email. So this is where you sign and submit. So you just click it. Did anyone assist you? You're going to

acknowledge this particular place here for female genital mutilation that you do not provide any consent to it. And then did anyone assist you in filling out the application? You filled it out yourself. So no one assisted me. And then indicate your passport number 0 1 2 3 4 1 2 3. And then you indicate this number here as R5U5. And that's [music] it. You're done. You're completely done. So now we're going to go to appointment booking. This is the Avit portal. We are done with this application. So this is the Avit

portal. Let me just copy out the confirmation code here. This is the Avid portal. I'm going to put the link on the description box of this video. This is where you're going to come to schedule your US visa appointment. So, you're going to click on new user to sign up. [music] Indicate your full name which is maybe Hubz here. Indicate [music] your email. Email authentication required. Indicate your phone number as well. These are not real numbers. Then click on continue. Once click on continue, an

authentication is sent to you and then you have an account. You follow the account. The email prompt [music] to sign into your account. And I'm going to show you how to schedule your appointment. But in the meantime, let's quickly go to review the document that you need for your visa appointment. So here I've done a quick breakdown on documentations that you need. The first one is your original international passport and all old passport if any. Please I cannot emphasize enough how important it is [music] for you to go

with old passports. Go with old passports. As one who have been to the US visa appointment interview, they asked for my old passport to see my previous travel history. if the claim was true or false and not having that single document [music] could have warranted a refusal. have all the documents handy on this list 1 to 21 whatever questions they ask you they probably will not ask for all of them probably ask you just [music] one or two and then you want to make sure that that particular one on school that they have

you have them handy your I20 form which we have shown you already a appointment letter which is after settling your appointment on the AVIT portal here then two passport photographs you need to have two passport photographs of your face the one you uploaded [music] to the to the form should be also what you take to the embassy. Go to student 24 if [music] there's anyone close to you. If you're in Nigeria, if you're abroad, check the US standard specification for passport photographs, digital

photographs and how it comes. Admission offer letter which we have seen. If you have scholarships or awards, attach them accordingly. Colored copy of your passport bio data page as well. Admission offer letter. I'd already said that initially your [music] birth certificate which shows your parents details as well. Your bank statement period of 6 months should cover as it should cover the amount stated on your I20. If you have a sponsor, the sponsor should provide their six months pay slips or pay stops if they are from a

foreign country [music] and include their bank statement as well for the previous past 6 months which of course would have been approved [music] because then to have your I20 issued to you, the school would request for the bank statement to see [music] sponsor evidence of employment as well is required. Sign letter of sponsorship. The the sponsor will need to write you a letter of sponsorship, sponsor ID, their international passport data page or their national ID card suffices. Affidavit of relationship if you cannot

establish any other way that they are related to you. [music] For example, they're your sibling. Take the two bed certificate to show that they are actually your sibling and including an [music] affidavit from them. Your personal bank statement I already mentioned it should be valid for 6 month not just your sponsors own which will then show your salaries that you are declared [music] that you're earning. your six month pay sleep as well and your employment letter your own personal employment letter [music]

not just your sponsor's employment letter your sponsor will provide the evidence of employment because the source of funds need to be established flight reservation in this case they done a do flight res reservation already your certificate BS BSC certificate and w certificate any award letter or recommendation letters you have not composed totally optional your I20 payment coupon and receipt of payment we've already seen the I20 payment coupon that generated for you to pay your service fee. So you need to make

sure that you have that handled as well and also the receipt of payment. Then your MROV fee receipt which is the last one which will be issued to you from the bank. Ensure you have this handy please. Very important. [music] And that's a list of what you need to take to the embassy. So we're going to go back to the appointment so [music] that I can walk you through briefly how to schedule the appointment. So this is the appointment website. I've logged in after creating an account. This is actually an existing account. So

you just know that uh it's something that I've used previously to schedule an appointment. However, it's the same process. All you need to do is to come here, click on create new. Once you click on create new, you indicate [music] where you're applying from. This particular avid people, they provide services in multiple country across the world. [music] You have Rwanda, you have France, the Netherlands. However, you're applying from Nigeria. So, you're going to click that and click on proceed.

[music] Where are you going to begin your submission? You indicated all the DS160 form which I had done in my case that I'll be [music] submitting in Lagos. So, for consistency reasons, you choose Lagos and click on proceed and then confirm that yes, I wouldn't be changing that after I've selected it. How may we assist you? You want to schedule an appointment for your biometrics and your interview. Choose your visa type. It's non-immigrant visa. So that's what the DS160. As you can see, there's also an

immigrant visa category. So please choose a subcategory. Subcategory is student. You're not a visitor. You're not a temporary worker and so on and so forth. So student and exchange visitor, which are all F1 J1 visas. In this case, it's F1 visa. So click [music] on click on it to proceed. Choose your your applicant number. In this case, just one adult myself. No dependent, no spouse. Proceed. And now this is also an interesting part where you now provide your details which includes your name.

Eichu ch. Then date of birth was I think we chose 1995 May 20. So that should be easy. May 20. Yeah. passport number was B 012 3 4 5 6 7 [music] and then confirmation number DS160 confirmation number you then put it here which is your DS160 [music] code that I had previously copied so now that we've gotten to this stage we're done with the application process I cannot proceed beyond this because I'm not going to provide my own case sensitive passport number to click on proceed however when you're doing

your application a pretty straightforward process once you've done is it will autogenerate a payment receipt for you to take to the bank and process the US visa fee. First Bank is usually the choice for payment. So there are no other alternatives once you've paid at First Bank. You then come back, they process it and you can then pick your date. Usually you might not be able to get an early date. You can reach out to me on 360 travel and tours or reach out to me personally on my Instagram effect. If you want to get an

early date, you just pay for an expedited appointment and we can help you with that. Please travel and tours can assist you with that. So that's about it. If you have any questions, drop in the comment section. Drop in the comment section. We'll be on the lookout for that. And do not forget to share this video with someone that needs it that is applying for their study visa. Like this video and subscribe to this channel. Thank you for watching up until this point.

