Hi, my name is Fem and I'll be your US visa officer today. >> And hi, my name is Yash. If you're going for your F1 visa interview anytime soon, you need to be prepared for the questions we're going to be discussing in this video today. So, let's get started. In 2026 and onwards, the US Embassy has introduced two new questions, which are mandatory. These will be asked to you right before your interview begins. Now, the answer to these questions can be simple, but they are important. So, take a look.

>> Have you faced harm or mistreatment in your home country? >> So, the government is trying to identify people who may go into the US and then claim asylum. And that's why they're asking you these questions. The answer to this question may be something as simple as, "No, officer. I've not experienced any harm or mistreatment in my country." >> Do you fear returning to your home country? >> No, I intend to return after complying with the terms of my visa. And now, the

real interview begins. So, these are the questions that you must be prepared for. 15 most popular, most common questions that are being asked as of today in the embassies and consulates. >> So, which university and program are you going for? >> Now, this is pretty straightforward. So, you answer this with something like this. "Officer, I'm going to Carnegie Mellon University for my master's in artificial intelligence and innovation." >> How many universities did you apply to?

>> You keep it short, crisp. Don't go into the details yet. Over here, you want to answer with an ideal number of universities, basically whatever you applied for. If possible, give them a number for another country as well. For instance, you may have applied for eight universities from the US and three from the UK. So, you can say, "Officer, I applied to eight universities within the US and three in [music] UK." The average ideal range should be between five to 10. But if you've done only one or two

universities worth of applications, and you have people living in that region, for instance, or you have friends living there, it may just make it seem like you're going to the US just to be in that region, and you were sure that you would get the admit. So, typically give the range of five to 10 in most cases. And you mention the other country to be able to show the officer that our goal is to study AI, for instance, in this case, and not just to immigrate to the US. >> How many admissions did you receive?

>> Uh officer, I received uh five admits, and I was wait-listed in two universities. >> So, why did you choose this university? >> And the answer to this one should be a little bit unique. What's unique in your particular program? You want to talk about that. For instance, an ideal answer would look like this. Officer, I chose CMU because their program in AI actually has a specialization in healthcare. My goal and my background is already in the mix of these two domains, so I find this to be the perfect program

for my fit. I also wanted to communicate that I've also connected with Professor Andrew XYZ, who is already at the forefront of the research between these two domains, and I feel like I would learn a lot by being a part of his research group. >> What are the tuition fee and total cost as per your I-20? >> This is where you want to mention your expenses [music] or values, everything in US dollars. Officer, my I-20 mentions the cost of the first year for the program to be somewhere close to 98,000 dollars. This

covers tuition, living expenses, insurance, books, everything. [music] >> So, how are you going to fund your education? >> Now, obviously, when you heard the previous question, you knew that this is probably coming up. Now, this is where you want to mention how you're going to be covering your tuition, especially for the first year, and hopefully you should have a little bit more down the line so that you can take care of your expenses for next year as well. This does not need to be 2 years' worth of tuition by

default, but if you have more money, it just shows that you'll be able to take care of your expenses in the program. So, an ideal answer probably looks a little bit like this. Officer, my father has savings worth 50,000 dollars, and I also have an additional education loan from HDFC worth 80,000 US dollars. I have the statements and sanction letters with me today. And that's it. You don't provide the statements until they ask you. >> What does your mother or father do? >> Again, this is pretty straightforward,

so be realistic, be honest about it. For instance, Officer, my father is a senior engineer at TCS with 18 years of experience, and my mother is a homemaker. >> Why did you choose this course or major? >> Now, this is a very common question, and this is one where people make all kinds of mistakes. They would take up information from the university's page, from the program's page, or give a random answer which has been taught to them by consultants. I recommend that you make this answer your own. Make sure

that you talk about how this exact program is the right fit for you. For example, [music] "Officer, I chose this program because I feel like health care and AI is something that has not been tapped into yet, and in the upcoming years there's going to be a lot of demand for this domain. Since I already work in this domain, I have a little bit of a background. I want to go deeper and understand the intricacies of this field because I feel like at my current position I've hit a road block and I'm

not able to get promoted further given my lack of academic rigor within the domain. And that's why I'm choosing the program right now so that I can come back and progress my career further up." >> Do you plan to work in the US after your graduation? >> Now, this is a trick question because they might actually end up asking you about OPT or STEM OPT, but you want to be very clear with it that you have no such plans of any work permits later on. Your goal is to study, come back. For

instance, a good answer looks like this. "No, officer, my long-term goal is to come back to India and advance the health care plus AI domain over here. I feel there's a lot of opportunity in this country. It's just that most people who really get the good opportunities are people who have already gotten expertise from that domain in the US. >> [music] >> So, that's why I'm actually pursuing this education so I can come back and uh be a part of the untapped market."

>> Do you have any relatives in the United States? >> Now, this one is again a trick question. If you're going close by to your relatives, you're going to live nearby, that could be a problem. So, if you have relatives who are really far off, you know, you don't really have any contact with them, they are not your brother, sister, father, parents, you just don't mention them. But if they are close relatives that you feel like you cannot avoid, you must mention these people. In that case, give an answer

like this, but make sure that you give confidence to the US visa officer you're not living with them or you're not going there to settle down with them. For example, an answer might be like this. Officer, my cousin did go to the US a couple years ago. However, I'm not in touch with them and we barely have any contact at this point. So, I'm not quite sure about what they're doing at this point or whether they're still in the US. And the best thing would be if you can stay farther away or go to a

university farther away from this particular relative, it can make your case even stronger. >> Have you ever been refused a US visa before? >> Now, this one is again a trick question. Understand this, if you've gotten a 214B denial, the only way to overcome that is to show a change of circumstance. That means either you change your university, you change your answer, something has dramatically changed in your life. If nothing major has changed, you probably want to give an answer like this to be

able to still make sure that your chances of getting the visa are good. Never put this on the visa officer, take it upon yourself. For instance, like this. Officer, I was denied last year, yes, but I feel like it was due to my lack of preparation for the interview and my lack of financial planning that I got refused. This year, I've taken care of that and I feel like I'm in a good enough position to move on and continue my journey. And if you've changed the university, that's even better. You

could say something like this. Officer, yes, I was denied last year and I feel like it was partly because of my choice in university. I did not realize that I was going to a tier three school and this year, I've taken action to fix that. I've applied to some of the top most schools, gotten admissions from one of the top most universities now and I'm going in with funding. I feel like I'm in a much better position this time to go to the US, continue my education and come back. >> What will you do if your visa gets

rejected today? >> Officer, in that case, I would have to accept your decision, of course, but at the same time, I [music] would regularly work on finding out what caused this refusal and I'll try my best to not let it happen again. I'll fix those mistakes and I'll come back, hopefully, with a stronger case. >> [music] >> You could also mention something like this. Officer, in the event of an unfortunate rejection, I would be forced to take up my backup country, the UK,

and I'm going to proceed with my decision from there. But, I'm really hoping I will get an opportunity to study in the US, especially at CMU, because I've really worked hard for the last 1 year to get an admission and work with Professor XYZ. >> Who is sponsoring your education? >> Officer, my father is the primary sponsor, but I also have an education loan on top of it to cover up just in [music] case I'm falling short of funds. >> Do you plan to return to India after

your studies? And why? >> Yes, I do plan on coming back to India. The growth in the AI plus healthcare sector is booming over here, and I feel like once I'm back, I will be in a much better position to contribute to that growth. I also have some family responsibilities over here, and I do want to make sure that I'm a big part of my parents' life as they've given me everything till now. But, I would like to have some of that US expertise in the field of AI plus healthcare on my resume

when I do that. >> So, why are you not going for higher studies in your home country, India? >> Officer, I do believe that India has excellent institutions, and I could very well take up a degree over here. But, what I've seen in my personal experience is that even in my company for now, for instance, people who have a US-based education and expertise typically are promoted faster. At the same point in time, I feel like this may be because the research facilities and infrastructure in the US, along with the

professors that I'm going to get to work with, may be unmatched. And it's majorly because of these two reasons I want to first study in the US and then come back to India and contribute to the growth of the sector. >> And that's it. Those are 15 most common questions that are being asked right now in 2026 and further for the US visa interview. Now, your case may be more complex than that. >> [music] >> There may be some intricacies that I may not be aware of. So, you can let me know

about your case. There's a free one-on-one chat on whyandgrad.com. You message me over there, and I'll be able to discuss your case with you one-on-one. You will also have access to some mock interviews on our website directly with human experts, or if you want, with an AI tool. But, make sure you prepare for the interview because rejections are at an all-time high right now. I wish you all the best for your US visa interview. Goodbye and take care. If you like the video, make sure to subscribe to the channel.

